.\"
.\" bittwistb.1 - manpage for the bittwistb program
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 - 2011 Addy Yeow Chin Heng <ayeowch@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH BITTWISTB 1 "12 December 2009"
.SH NAME
.B bittwistb
\-- pcap based ethernet bridge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bittwistb
[
.B \-dvh
] [
.B \-i
.I interfaces
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes the \fIbittwistb\fP program, the \fIpcap\fP(3) based Ethernet bridge. \fIBittwistb\fP is designed to allow a single host to do bridging on independent sets of Ethernet-type interfaces under Ethernet II (IEEE 802.3) network with a MTU of up to 1500 bytes. Since \fIbittwistb\fP uses functions provided by \fIpcap\fP(3) library, e.g. \fBpcap_open_live\fP() and \fBpcap_inject\fP(), to capture and write packets, it may require that you have special privileges, e.g. read access to \fI/dev/bpf*\fP on BSD or root access on Linux, to do the bridging or to enumerate network devices with, for example, the \fB-d\fP flag.
.PP
\fIBittwistb\fP works by polling, \fIpoll\fP(2), for packets on all of the interfaces supplied to the \fB-i\fP flag and forward them from one interface to another according to the bridging rules below:
.IP
Multicast and broadcast packets are always forwarded to all of the interfaces supplied to the \fB-i\fP flag except for the interface on which the packets arrive.
.IP
For unicast packets, \fIbittwistb\fP learns which MAC addresses are associated with which interfaces and it will forward the packets selectively. Like most bridges, \fIbittwistb\fP uses a hash table to store known MAC addresses. Each entry in the hash table is kept for at most 5 minutes.
.PP
\fIBittwistb\fP terminates when it receives an interrupt signal, SIGINT, which is typically generated by typing Control-C.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Print a list of network interfaces available.
.TP
.B \-v
Print forwarding information including the destination and source MAC addresses of forwarded packets.
.TP
.B \-i \fIinterfaces\fP
List of comma separated Ethernet-type interfaces to bridge.
.br
Example: \fB-i\fP vr0,fxp0
.br
You can specify between 2 to 8 interfaces.
.TP
.B \-h
Print version information and usage.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fIBittwistb\fP will, if run with the \fB-v\fP flag, print forwarding information as shown in the example below:
.IP
1 : root@localhost# bittwistb -i vr0,fxp0 -v
.br
2 : vr0=00:08:54:36:5e:01,port=1
.br
3 : fxp0=00:13:20:3e:ab:cf,port=2
.br
4 : [057451]mac=00:0d:61:b2:59:6b,port=1
.br
5 : dmac=ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff,smac=00:0d:61:b2:59:6b,outport=2
.br
6 : [056851]mac=00:13:46:76:20:13,port=1
.br
7 : dmac=01:00:5e:7f:ff:fa,smac=00:13:46:76:20:13,outport=2
.br
8 : [056851]deleted
.br
9 : [057451]deleted
.PP
Line numbers are not visible in the actual output. MAC addresses and ports associated with the interfaces supplied to the \fB-i\fP flag are printed at line 2 and 3. At line 4, a new MAC address is stored in the bridging hash table at index 57451. This MAC address belongs to a host which resides on port 1, i.e. the first LAN segment. At line 5, a broadcast packet is forwarded out through all ports except port 1 of which the source MAC address resides on, hence the outport=2. At line 6, a new MAC address which belongs to a host in the first LAN segment is stored at index 56851. At line 7, a multicast packet is forwarded out through all ports except port 1 of which the source MAC address resides on, hence the outport=2. At line 8 and 9, entry 56851 and 57451 are removed from the hash table after approximately 5 minutes.
.PP
Under normal use, we do not recommend running \fIbittwistb\fP with the \fB-v\fP flag set as this may result in a poor bridging performance due to the standard I/O operation.
.SH SEE ALSO
bittwist(1), bittwiste(1), pcap(3), tcpdump(1)
.SH BUGS
File your bug report and send to:
.IP
Addy Yeow Chin Heng <ayeowch@gmail.com>.
.PP
Make sure you are using the latest stable version before submitting your bug report.
.PP
If a known host relocates to another LAN segment, \fIbittwistb\fP will continue to forward packets destined to the host through its old LAN segment. The presence of this host in a new LAN segment is known only after at most 5 minutes.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2011 Addy Yeow Chin Heng <ayeowch@gmail.com>
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.SH AUTHORS
Original author and current maintainer:
.IP
Addy Yeow Chin Heng
.PP
The current version is available from http://bittwist.sourceforge.net
